Overview
========

RJ has published Resolution 13/2019, ( “Resolution” below in text) which defines
how an NF-e should be issued, and how to record such information in the EFD ICMS
IPI, when executing the following operations (Decree No. 27.815 / 01):

1.  EXEMPTION

2.  REDUCTION OF THE BASIS OF CALCULATION OR REDUCTION OF RATE

3.  PRESUMED CREDIT

4.  "TAXATION ON BILLING", "TAXATION ON RECIPE" OR "TAXATION ON OUTPUT"

5.  DEFERRAL

6.  INEXIGIBILITY OF CREDIT REVERSE

7.  FISCAL CREDIT REPAIR OR ACCUMULATED CREDIT BALANCE TRANSFER

According to this Resolution "Exonerations" are to be registered as adjustments
on Fiscal Documents and as adjustments in Fiscal Books and to be reported in
SPED Files.

The Resolution requirements impact on output the E111, E115, C195/C197/0460 lines
in SPEC fiscal.

Overview of SPED Fiscal records by operations, listed in the Resolution
=======================================================================

1.  *Exemption and credit reversal*

During the Sync process two types of adjustment transactions will be created in
ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 30 or 40

-   Benefit codes from table 5.2 and 5.3 as well as observation code are
    assigned to the related item and state of above fiscal document.

For example, code from 5.2 table = RJ801137, code from 5.3 table = RJ90980000

Adjustment transactions created automatically in SPED Fiscal (examples):

-   Adjustment code from table 5.2 generates a E115 record

\|E115\|RJ801137\|0\|\|

-   Adjustment code from table 5.3 generates a C197 record

\|C197\|RJ90980000\|RJ801137\|ItemId\|0,00\|0,00\|0,00\|0.88\|

*Note*. In this example the base amount = 3.5, ICMS %=18, FCP=0,02, amount 0.88
is calculated as:

3,5/ (1-(0,18+0.02)) \* (0,18+0,02)

-   Observation code, assigned to the related item and state of above fiscal
    document, generates C195 and 0460 records:

\|C195\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

\|0460\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

To register the reversal of credits, a user creates manual adjustment in the
General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive journal and fill in Description field
with the code from the table 5.2.

 Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

\|E111\|RJ18003\| RJ801137\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

1.  *Reduction of Tax base or percentage:*  
      
    During the Sync process two types of adjustment transactions will be created
    in ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 20 ,70

-   Benefit code from table 5.2 and 5.3 are assigned to the related item and
    state of above fiscal document  
      
    For example, code from 5.2 table = RJ802164, code from 5.3 table =
    RJ90980000

Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

-   Adjustment code table 5.2 generates E115 record  
      
    \|E115\|RJ802164\|0\|\|

-   Adjustment code from table 5.3 generates a C197 record

\|C197\|RJ90980000\|RJ802164\|ItemId\|0,00\|0,00\|0,00\|0,20\|

*Note*. In this example the base amount = 3.5, ICMS %= 12, Percentage reduction
=41.67, amount 0.20 is calculated as:

3,5 \* (1-(0,12\*(1-0,4167)))/ (1-0,12)-3,5

-   Observation code, assigned to the related item and state of above fiscal
    document, generates C195 and 0460 records:

\|C195\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

\|0460\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

 

1.  *Presumed credit*

*Out of scope*: the system can’t prepare additional % necessary for C197.

To register the reversal of credits, a user creates manual adjustment in the
General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive journal and fill in Description field
with the code from the table 5.2.

 Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

\|E111\| RJ018003\|RJ805289\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

 

1.  *Tax on Total sales, output, billing*

During the Sync process one type of adjustment transactions will be created in
ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 00

-   Benefit code from the table 5.2 is assigned to the related item and state of
    above fiscal document (code from the table 5.3 is not assigned)  
      
    For example, code from 5.2 table = RJ822371

Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

-   Adjustment code table 5.2 generates E115 record:  
      
    \|E115\| RJ822371\|0\|\|

*Note*. As there is no code 5.3, records C195, C197 and 0460 are note created

 

To register the reversal of credits/ debits/ the debits of 3,5%, a user creates
manual adjustments in the General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive journal and
fill in Description field with the code from the table 5.2.

 Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

\|E111\|RJ18003\|RJ822371\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

\|E111\|RJ38003\|RJ822371\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

\|E111\|RJ08006\|RJ822371\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

1.  *Deferral*

During the Sync process two types of adjustment transactions will be created in
ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 51

-   Benefit codes from table 5.2 and 5.3 are assigned to the related item and
    state of above fiscal document.

For example, code from 5.2 table = RJ818317, code from 5.3 table = RJ90980001

Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

-   Adjustment code from table 5.2 generates a E115 record

\|E115\| RJ818317\|0\|\|

-   Adjustment code from table 5.3 generates a C197 record

\|C197\| RJ90980001\| RJ818317\|ItemId\|0,00\|0,00\|0,00\|6585.36\|

*Note*. In this example the base amount = 30000,00, amount 6585.36 is calculated
as:

30000,00/ (1-0,18)\*0,18

-   Observation code, assigned to the related item and state of above fiscal
    document, generates C195 and 0460 records:

\|C195\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

\|0460\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

 

1.  *Enforceability of credit reversal*

During the Sync process two types of adjustment transactions will be created in
ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 40

-   Benefit codes from table 5.2 and 5.3 are assigned to the related item and
    state of above fiscal document.

For example, code form 5.2 table = RJ801163, code form 5.3 table = RJ90980000

Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

-   Adjustment code from table 5.2 generates a E115 record

\|E115\| RJ801163\|0\|\|

-   Adjustment code from table 5.3 generates a C197 record

\|C197\|RJ90980000\|RJ801137\|ItemId\|0,00\|0,00\|0,00\|20\|

*Note*. In this example the base amount = 200, ICMS %=18, FCP=0,02, amount 20 is
calculated as:

200/ (1-(0,18+0,02))\*(0,18+0.02)

-   Observation code, assigned to the related item and state of above fiscal
    document, generates C195 and 0460 records:

\|C195\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

\|0460\|\<Observation code\>\|\<Observation code description\>\|

To register the reversal of credits, a user creates manual adjustments in the
General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive journal and fill in Description field
with the code from the table 5.2.

 Adjustment transactions created automatically (examples) in SPED Fiscal:

\|E111\|RJ18003\| RJ801163\|\<Adjustment amount\>\|

 

1.  *Passing on or transfer of Tax credit*

During the Sync process two types of adjustment transactions will be created in
ICMS tax assessment under these specific criteria:

-   Outgoing tax fiscal document issued from RJ state with taxation code = 90

-   Benefit codes from table 5.2 and 5.3 are assigned to the related item/ CFOP
    and state of above fiscal document.

For example, code form 5.2 table = RJ801163, code form 5.3 table = RJ90980000

To register the reversal of credits, the system automatically creates
adjustments in the General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive journal and
relates the journal line to the tax fiscal document.

 

Adjustment transactions created automatically (example for a sender) in SPED
Fiscal:

E115\|RJ821231\|0\|\|

C197\| RJ40080001\|RJ821231\|codigoitem\|0,00\|0,00\|\<Tax amount\>\|0,00\|

Adjustment transactions created automatically (example for a recipient) in SPED
Fiscal:

                    E115\|RJ821231\|0\|\|

C197\|RJ10080002\|RJ821231\|codigoitem\|0,00\|0,00\|\<Tax
amount\>\|0,00\|           

Setup 
======

Fiscal books parameters per state
---------------------------------

1.  Navigate *Fiscal books \> Setup \> Fiscal books parameters per state*

2.  Expend **SPEC Fiscal** FastTab and in the **Resolution 13/2019** field
    group:

    -   Select **Document adjustment** check box – Processing document
        adjustment according to Resolution 13/2019. If this parameter is not
        selected, the system does not apply the Resolution requirements.

    -   **Name** – Journal name for General tax adjustment/ benefit/ incentive
        journal. The system uses this journal name, when a user needs to perform
        ICMS transfer operation to another fiscal establishment. 

Benefit code per Item/ state
----------------------------

1.  Navigate *Tax \> Setup \> Sales tax \> Benefit code per Item/ state.*

2.  Set up **Adjustment code 5.2**, **Adjustment code 5.3** and **Observation
    code**, if needed.

These settings are used for automatic creation ICMS adjustment records for
Fiscal document line when posting and Sync operation executing.

A user should execute these settings, in order to get the correct SPEC fiscal
according to the Resolution.

Creation of Tax fiscal document 
================================

If the **Document adjustment** check box is selected in **Fiscal books
parameters per state**  for the state then a user may select only sales tax code
with Fiscal value equal to 3 (taxation code, related to the sales tax code has
Fiscal value=3, without credit/debit) in the Tax fiscal document line (*General
ledger \> Journals \> All tax fiscal documents*).

**Note.** For correct posting the tax fiscal document the selected sales tax
code should have the following calculation setting:

-   Origin **Percentage of net amount**

-   Marginal base **Net amount per line**.

-   Calculation method **Whole amount**.

When posting a **Tax fiscal document** that has such sales tax code attached to
the line, the system does not create voucher transaction. But when a user
executes Sync operation (*Fiscal books \> Common \> Booking period*, the
**Sync** button), the system creates and posts General tax/ adjustment/ benefit
/ incentive journal (*Fiscal books \> Journals*) related with the posted Tax
fiscal document for ICMS transfer to another fiscal establishment.

The system fills in data in the journal lines from Posting profile of adjustment
code 5.3 (*Fiscal books \> Setup \> Tax adjustment codes \> Adjustment and
information for fiscal documents*, **Posting** FastTab) and the amount fills in
from the Tax fiscal document.

**Note**. A user should setup **Benefit code per Item/ State** (*General ledger
\> Setup \> Sales tax \> Benefit code per Item/ state*) for ICMS transfer before
using this functionality.  According to the Resolution adjustments codes should
be set up for ICMS transfer:

-   Adjustment code 5.2 =RJ821231 and Adjustment code 5.3= RJ10080002 for Sender

-   Adjustment code 5.2 =RJ821231 and Adjustment code 5.3 = RJ10080002 for
    Recipient.    
