---
title: Project mobile applications overview
---

Overview
========

This article provides general information about Microsoft Dynamics 365 project
time applications that are available on a mobile device. There are three project
time mobile applications available, including Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project
Timesheet, Project Time Entry, and My timesheets/Timesheets for my review
(Optimized for mobile).

The Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project Timesheet mobile app enables users to submit
and approve timesheet for projects on their mobile device. This mobile app
surfaces the timesheet functionality that resides in the Project management and
accounting area of Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations, improving
user productivity and efficiency, as well as enabling timely entry and approval
of project timesheets.

Project Time Entry workspace allows users to enter and save time against a
project. This application doesnâ€™t allow the worker to submit or approve a
project timesheet. It is intended for time entry. This mobile workspace is
intended to be used with the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Unified Operations
mobile application.

My timesheets (Optimized for mobile) and Timesheets for my review (Optimized for
mobile) allows employees to create, submit and approve project timesheets on a
mobile device. This solution allows the worker to access the Microsoft Dynamics
365 for Finance and Operations functionality through the URL for the
application. It does not require the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Unified
Operations mobile application.

For more information, see [Microsoft Dynamics 365 Project timesheet mobile
application]( project-timesheet.md), [Project time entry](
project-time-entry-mobile-workspace.md) and [Project timesheets on a mobile
device]( Mobile-timesheets.md).
